*\[This template contains all of the necessary sections for completing a
document for the F1000R Hackathons channel.  Do not remove any sections.
Do not change the order of any sections.  Figures should be submitted as
separate files.  Detailed author instructions are available at
http://f1000research.com/for-authors/article-guidelines/software-tool-articles.\]*

Please put three bullet points in each section before the initial
workflow presentation on day 1!

\###

Title (sentence-case, not title case) 

**Authors**

Author Name 1

Author email address

Author affiliation, including full address with zip code

ORCID

Shilpa Sundar

Shilpa14@ad.unc.edu

Carolina Health Informatics Program, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, North Carolina - 27516

ORCID: 0000-0003-4097-3395

Abstract

Insert abstract here (up to 300 words, no citations, spell out all
abbreviations).

- This pipeline provides a modular approach to process cancer genome
  data starting from public sources such as The Cancer Genome Atlas and
  extending to new datasets.

- It combines GIRAFFE View for mapping, dbSNP for variant annotation,
  clustering for pattern discovery, and a knowledge graph (GIRAFFE
  Agent) to link genetic variants with cancer types.

- The framework enables rapid annotation, categorization, and insight
  generation from both existing and unseen cancer genome samples in a
  reproducible way.

Keywords

GIRAFFE View, GIRAFFE Agent, Cancer Genomics Pipeline

Introduction

Insert introduction here. This section should provide context as to why
the software tool was developed and what need it addresses

- Large cancer genome repositories like The Cancer Genome Atlas provide
  rich but complex data that require systematic processing to extract
  actionable insights.

- Current tools typically address only one part of the workflow
  (alignment, annotation, or analysis) and lack an integrated framework
  to connect genetic variants with clinical context.

- The GIRAFFE Agent pipeline was developed to fill this gap by combining
  mapping, annotation, clustering, and knowledge graph construction into
  a single usable pipeline for research and future clinical
  applications.

Methods

Insert methods here, with the two required subsections as described
below:

Implementation

> This section describes how the tool works and relevant technical
> details for implementation (how did you build it)
>
> Operation
>
> This section should include the minimal system requirements needed to
> run the software and an overview of the workflow (how do people use
> it)

Results

Include if the paper includes novel data or analyses; should be written
as a traditional results section (otherwise, include a Use Cases
section).

Use Cases

If not including a Results section, include this section. Examples of
input and output files should be provided with some explanatory context.
Any novel or complex variable parameters should be explained in
sufficient detail to enable users to understand and use the tool\'s
functionality. 

Conclusion and next steps

This section should include a brief discussion of allowances made (if
any) for controlling bias or unwanted sources of variability, and the
limitations of any novel datasets. Also include any next steps for
future development (whether your group actually plans to do this or
these steps are just included a guidance for potential future
development).

Data and software availability

Source code for new software must be made openly, and permanently
available in a structured repository such as Zenodo (the *F1000Research*
team can assist with deposition), as well as uploaded to a Version
Control System (VCS) such as GitHub, BitBucket or SourceForge. Please
provide details in a section entitled "Software availability", listing
the repository and the license under which the software can be used in
the article. Source code must be assigned an open license. 

Suggested Reviewers

Please pick ten suggested reviewers with whom you have not published in
the last three years and who do not work in the same department.  Papers
can not be sent to F1000 research without such a list.  

Author contributions

F1000R uses the CRediT Taxonomy for author contributions.  For each
author, list their contribution(s) from the list below.  Anyone who
contributed in another capacity or otherwise does not meet the criteria
for authorship (e.g. they did not review the final manuscript) should be
included in the acknowledgements.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Contributor       **Role Definition**
  Role**              
  ------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  Conceptualization   Ideas; formulation or evolution of overarching
                      research goals and aims.

  Data Curation       Management activities to annotate (produce
                      metadata), scrub data and maintain research data
                      (including software code, where it is necessary for
                      interpreting the data itself) for initial use and
                      later reuse.

  Formal Analysis     Application of statistical, mathematical,
                      computational, or other formal techniques to analyze
                      or synthesize study data.

  Funding Acquisition Acquisition of the financial support for the project
                      leading to this publication.

  Investigation       Conducting a research and investigation process,
                      specifically performing the experiments, or
                      data/evidence collection.

  Methodology         Development or design of methodology; creation of
                      models.

  Project             Management and coordination responsibility for the
  Administration      research activity planning and execution.

  Resources           Provision of study materials, reagents, materials,
                      patients, laboratory samples, animals,
                      instrumentation, computing resources, or other
                      analysis tools.

  Software            Programming, software development; designing
                      computer programs; implementation of the computer
                      code and supporting algorithms; testing of existing
                      code components.

  Supervision         Oversight and leadership responsibility for the
                      research activity planning and execution, including
                      mentorship external to the core team.

  Validation          Verification, whether as a part of the activity or
                      separate, of the overall replication/reproducibility
                      of results/experiments and other research outputs.

  Visualization       Preparation, creation and/or presentation of the
                      published work, specifically visualization/data
                      presentation.

  Writing -- Original Creation and/or presentation of the published work,
  Draft Preparation   specifically writing the initial draft (including
                      substantive translation).

  Writing -- Review & Preparation, creation and/or presentation of the
  Editing             published work by those from the original research
                      group, specifically critical review, commentary or
                      revision -- including pre- or post-publication
                      stages.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Competing interests

Note any financial, personal, or professional competing interests for
any of the authors that could be construed to unduly influence the
content of the article. If none, include the text 'No competing
interests were disclosed.'

Grant information

Include funding if relevant (including funding from authors' employers
if relevant, and any relevant grant funding).  **If** none, include the
text 'The author(s) declared that no grants were involved in supporting
this work'. 

Acknowledgements

This section should acknowledge anyone who contributed to the research
or the writing of the article but who does not qualify as an author;
please clearly state how they contributed. Authors should obtain
permission to include the name and affiliation, from all those mentioned
in the Acknowledgments section.

References

Instructions on using the F1000R Google docs plug in for reference
management:
[[http://f1000.com/work/faq/google-docs-add-on/1]{.underline}](http://f1000.com/work/faq/google-docs-add-on/1)

Instructions on using the F1000R Word plug in for reference management:
[[http://f1000.com/work/faq/word-plugin]{.underline}](http://f1000.com/work/faq/word-plugin) 

Figures and Tables

All figures and tables should be cited and discussed in the article
text. Figure legends and tables should be added at the end of the
manuscript. Tables should be formatted using the 'insert table' function
in Word, or provided as an Excel file. Files for figures should be
uploaded as separate files through the submission system. Each figure or
table should have a concise title of no more than 15 words. A legend for
each figure and table should also be provided that briefly describes the
key points and explains any symbols and abbreviations used. The legend
should be sufficiently detailed so that the figure or table can stand
alone from the main text. 
